Day-1
------
Frontend
--------
1.The part of a website that the user interacts with directly is called as frontend
2.In Fontend it is also referred as client side of the application 
3.It includes everything that user experiences directly 
4.HTML,CSS,JS,Bootstrap are the Languages used for Frontend Development

Backend
--------
1.Backend is the server side of the website
2.It stores and arranges the data also make sure everything on the client side of the web site works fine.
3.In backend there are some languages like java, python ,php,.net ..etc

API
-----
It means Application Programming Interface which is the collection of communication protocols used by various programs to communicate between them 

Storage Areas
-------------
As part of our applications we require to store data like customers information, or billing
Information,calls information.. etc

To store this we need Storage Areas

There are 2 Types of Storage Areas Such As
1.Temporary Storage Areas
2.Permanent Storage Areas

1.Temporary Storage Areas
-------------------------
These are the memory areas where the data will be stored Temporarily 
EG: All JVM memory Areas(like Heap Area,Stack Area,Method Area,PC Registers,Native Method Stacks).Once JVM Shutdowns all these Memory areas will be cleared automatically.

2.Permanent Storage Areas
-------------------------
Also known as Persistent Storage areas. (Data is stored Permanently)

Example: File Systems,Databases,Data Warehouses,Bigdata,... etc

FILE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(FMS)
---------------------------
Def : A File Management system is a system where data is stored in files on the operating system, each application program must handle its own storage data,retreival and updating.File 
Systems can provided by the local Operating System.

File Systems are suitable while storing Very less Amounts of information in KB's

Example: A library Management system Storing Books in separate text files like
Books.txt,members.txt

Limitations of FMS
------------------
1.Data Redundancy    	       : Same Data is stored in multiple files
2.Data Inconsistency 	       : Updates in one file may not be reflected in another
3.Poor data Security 	       : No proper Accessed Control
4.Difficulty in Data Retrieval : Searching Requires Custom Programs
5.Integrity issues 	       : No Constraints (Eg : Roll Number Uniqueness)
6.Scalability Issues	       : Hard to manage as data grows

To overcome these problems in file systems we should go for Databases

Data Base ManagementSystem
------------------------------
Def : A DBMS is a collection of programs that enables users to create,Manage,And Manipulate Databases

It acts as an interface b/w user and database
Advantages
----------
1. we can Store Huge Amount of information in databases
2. Query Language support is avaialable for every database and hence we can perform data base operations very easily
3. To access data present in database, compulsory user name and password must be required hence data is secured
4. Inside database data will be stored in the form of tables , while Developing database table schemas , database admin follow various normalization 
   techniques and we can implement various constraints like unique key constraints, primary key constraints..etc which prevent data duplication .
   hence there is no chance of Data inconsistency problems
  
 Limitations Of DataBases
 --------------------------
 1) Databases cannot store huge amount of information like terabytes of data
 2) Databases can provide support for only structured data (tabular data or relational data) and cannot provide support for semi structured data like
    (xml  files) and unstructured data(like Video,audio,images..etc)
	
To Overcome these problems we should go for advanced storage areas like BigData,data warehouse..etc


Q1) What are the diff b\w FMS and DBMS
==========================================
1.FMS
  DBMS
1. Data is stored in Files
   Data is stored in structured Databases
2. High data Redundancy(Duplicate Data)
   Reduces Data Redundancy
3. Difficult to maintain and update
   Easy to mantain and Update
4. Security is Limited
   Provides strong Security Mechanisms
5. Data Sharing is Difficult
   Multiple Users can access Data simultaneously
6. No relationship b\w files
   supports Relationship b\w Tables
7. Backup and recovery are difficult
   Provides backup and recovery features
8. Data Incosistency may Raise Anamolies
   Mainatains data consistency and Integrity
9. Suitable for small Applications
   Suitable for small,medium,Large Applications

Q) What is the difference between a File System and DBMS(IQ) ??
------------------------------------------------------------------
 A File system stores data in seperate files and may lead to data redundancy,and secuirity issues,A DBMS stores data in Structured manner using tables
 reduces redundancy,provides Secuirity,supports multuiple users,and ensures data integrity and consistency.
 
 Data
 Field
 Record
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 